# Portfolio

A portfolio of some of the projects that I have completed at University, including Python programming for Machine Learning and Mathematical Data Modelling.

## Identifying Bubbles in Financial Data

A third year mathematical and data modelling group project based on identifying financial bubbles, proposed by David Greenwood of CheckRisk (https://check-risk.com).  The project makes use of historical price data sets which includes stock market indexes such as the Dow Jones. It focuses on the use of the stochastic Ornstein Uhlenbeck process as a means of detrending residuals from the price to the fundamental value.  We made conclusions from corresponding autocorrelation plots that markets trend in the short term and mean revert in the long term.  Also, plots of the residuals provided an indicator of where bubbles may occur which could potentially be developed to predict crashes.  I developed my skills in data science with this project as I used techniques with Pandas in Python to analyse and remove noise from large data sets and apply complex statistical tests to them.

The Python code I produced for this project and the report that I worked on are included in the folder titled financial_bubbles. I achieved a First Class grade with a mark of 76% for my contributions.

## Social Network Analysis within the Great Financial Crisis

A third year mathematical and data modelling group project involving the use of graph theory to generate social networks from careers data sourced leading up to the Great Financial Crisis in 2008. The project focused on Collaterised Debt Obligations (CDOs) which were thought to have been an indirect cause of the Crisis due to connections between Collateral Managers. With data that contained career trajectories of several collateral managers, the project used random graph models, quadratic assignment procedures and social sequencing to look for any trends between CDO downgrades and the career histories of employees associated with the Collateral Management firms.

The programs I used for this project were R (including packages TraMineR and Statnet), Python and Gephi. We also used Excel to clean the data that we were given. The folder titled financial_crisis contains the report and poster that I worked on for this project. I achieved a First Class grade with a mark of 87% for my contributions.


## Bayesian Linear Regression, Gaussian Process Regression and Principle Component Analysis

A third year machine learning group project which I worked on with Mike Talbot (@miketalbotbox).  We achieved a First Class grade with a mark of 75% in this coursework.  I highly enjoyed this project as I learnt a lot about the key components of machine learning, including statistics and calculus.

This project challenged us to interpret different aspects of building models of data, in particular Bayesian linear regression and non-parametric models, as well as learning the theory behind them. The folder machinelearning_models includes a 9 page report detailing our conclusions, the project brief and the code we made to tackle the problems.

## Image De-noising and Segmentation Using Iterative Conditional Modes, Gibbs Sampling and Mean Field Variational Bayes in The Ising Model

Another third year machine learning group project which I worked on with Mike Talbot (@miketalbotbox).  We achieved a First Class grade with a mark of 87% in this coursework.  This was more applied than the previous project and looked at some very practical uses of machine learning.

The aim of the project was to remove the noise from a corrupted image.  In the Ising Model, we model each observed pixel as generated by latent pixels lying in a Markov Random Field.  We use methods like Gibbs Sampling and Mean Field Variational Bayes to recover the image, and compared the accuracy of the image.

The second part of the project was to use image segmentation to segment an image into its corresponding foreground and background layers.  This was done by using K-means clustering to separate different colours and plotting histograms which show where their probability density in the image.  The folder machinelearning_denoising includes a 5 page report detailing our conclusions, the project brief and the code we made to tackle the problems.

## Emergence of Segregation in Networks

A second year mathematical modelling group project based on different types of networks and measuring segregation through Markov chain convergence.  I achieved a First Class grade with a mark of 86% for my contributions.  The code made for the mathematical model is included in both the appendix of the report and separate files.  For this project I was introduced to building networks in Python using the Numpy and NetworkX packages.






